---
title: "Introduction & Methodology"
date: 2022-12-18
published: true

excerpt: "Understanding trends in the sentiments around electric vehicles between 2015 and 2019"
toc: false
toc_sticky: false
---






## Introduction & Methodology


This project begins by exploring twitter data and extracting a sentiment analysis from tweets between the years of 2015-2019. 
By using an Academic Developer API (thanks Professor Nick), we were able to scrap nearly 500, 000 tweets. 
We used our API tokens to initialize  several queries and used search terms like “electric vehicles, Evs, or tesla” along with the hashtags, then filtered by elimiating retweets, and tweets that contained URLs through the library Tweepy. 
As mentioned previously we filtered by start times and end times in order to control the date range of the information returned. We chose that date range due EVs increased media and public attention along with benchmarking policies like California’s 2015 Clean Energy & Reduction act, or the recent federal Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act of 2021. 
Using the count word frequencies function we then were able to extract the top 10 word frequencies across all tweets and created a dataframe to better organize and filter our data.

Once we filtered for our target words, start and end times, eliminated urls and common stop words, we were able to perform a sentiment analysis using the textbob .

We then created a number of fields and a dataframe inlcusing date, text, polarity and subjectivity. The median polarity of tweets is 0.16, the mean 0.17. This indicates a slightly positive skew to the discussion surrounding electric vehicles.
The median subjectivity is .5 (on a scale of zero to one) indicating that the subjectivity skews lower.
We then plot subjectivity and polarity against each other, and observe the trend that as subjectivity increases, so does polarity in both directions. 
That is, as the tweets get more and more subjective, they are also either most positive or more negativ=e.
